At a high level,
I will just kind of talk about plugins.
And I think that's kind of final piece and
then you are you all get your
like Tailwind merit badge.
Generally speaking,
it's not we did a workshop on the recently
where you can like add all this power and
functionality and stuff along those
lines into your build system.
A lot of the plugins for
Tailwind are just nice ways of
packaging up stuff that you
could have done in those layers.
And so, it is useful if you've
got multiple codebases and
you wanna be able to
port that stuff around.
Or the other version of that if
you are running a consultancy and
you wanna have a pack of the stuff that
you use all the time, it is super useful.
But, I think, let's actually
look at the plugin API here,
because I think it does a really
good job of showing it.
It is effectively a function where
you get, and you can kinda tell,
what you're getting yourself into with
this addUtilities, addComponents.
What do you think that does?
The same thing that was in your style.
But what's super powerful about it is
then you can publish it up to NPM, and
it actually wires itself
into that IntelliSense.
So here's one, the way that I
use it is on our marketing site,
we have a bunch of typography.
Obviously what a h1 looks like on mobile,
what it looks like on every screen
size is a different set of text.
LG, and then MD text, whatever, and
so I have a plug in that is just
I say typography for the display and
hierarchy for a heading.
And then at each viewpoint, it's got
all the breakpoints in there, right?
And I can use that across our
documentation site, our marketing site,
all the different places and I don't have
to like port that over by hand I just
bumped the dependency and
we are good to go.
I do wanna draw your attention to one of
the official ones that I
use a lot in the website.
It says tailwindworkshop.forsell.app, and
you just go I'll show you my own repo
you can look at the code,
cuz that's all in tailwind as well, and
you can kind of see some
of the pieces that I used.
I'll show you one of
the official ones that I use.
There are two that I use a lot and
I'll just draw them to your attention,
but really the major thing
that I do with plugins is kind of
then adding the base styles, right?
So now I have one plug-in NPM install
like our I actually just we have
the files like internally that we use
cuz they're just functions, right?
It's just literally,
you hand their Tailwind/plugin a function,
in there you get addUtilities,
addComponents.
You get access to the configuration file.
You get access to the theme file,
so you can patch the theme.
You can read stuff from their
current theme and extend it.
So, it's just basically a way to use
JavaScript to package up everything
that would happen that you would do in one
of these styles in a much more portable
format.
But I'll show you some of the plugins
that I think are also really good.
And we saw that thing with has before.
The other one that's kinda cool is the
addVariant, but there's not a lot going
on there, you basically give it
the same syntax you would do like end.
The hover pseudo class that
we saw like variant is just
end colon hover, but
you call it hover colon, right?
it does the post CSS nesting for
you and just wires it all up,
it's just a nice way to
package everything up.
The one that I use a lot that,
what I used on the site that you we've
been looking at all day
is Tailwind typography.
Basically, it gives you this new prose
class that is just like decent headings,
decent line spacing,
it did give me those back ticks like
they use it on the site, right?
All of that was the Tailwind typography
plug-in that basically you can just write
Markdown and it will look good,
as long as you put a prose around will
keep everything from getting too wide.
All the little stuff that is tedious,
cuz I'm gonna be honest, I don't really
understand line height, I just know
that I don't like it when it looks bad.
And this gives me relatively good line
height, good typography, good headings,
good everything along those lines.
That one is super simple,
we use it on a site anytime we're
gonna render content and Markdown.
We throw the pros class on it,
it gets laid out really nicely, and
everything's great.
The forums when I don't use
because we have a very specific
design language in that sense.
The one that I really love, and
we talked a little bit about
this which is some of
the things that are plugins or
plugins presently because they are maybe
not full on web standards are in CSS yet.
And so if they're in core, there's like
a little bit of an expectation that you're
not gonna make breaking changes.
If they are a plugin,
like the expectations that you
have are slightly different.
And so container queries are a CSS
feature that this just gives you
utility methods for.
And container queries are the thing you
always wanted that you never knew that you
had, that you wanted, which is we
saw those responsive breakpoints for
a wide screen agenda queries.
How wide is the div that I'm in, right?
So if that div is only 300 pixels wide,
then you might choose the layout and
flex column versus that div ends up.
Even that grid layout that we saw before,
I might choose to then have all
the contents in that sidebar in a flexbox.
And if it was a wide even on a smaller
screen, then I want it to be a row,
versus if it ends up as a sidebar,
then I want it to be a column.
And it allows the browser just say,
okay, what is the container that I'm in?
And remember doing that in JavaScript
you gotta get the client with and
all that it's terrible.
I'll actually show it to you
in this code base real quick.
Cool, let's grab it.
I use it in that CSS grid thing and
we saw earlier, so we'll go to,
Say, do I have it readily available?
So you basically can put it @container,
which is very much like when
we saw peer and group, right?
You can do container,
you can also do one with a slash as well.
And what it will do in those
senses is it will go ahead and
allow you to have different nested ones.
You can be like, hey, I am an element,
I could be a child way down the DOM tree.
And it's like, if this container is wide,
I wanna render like this.
I use it like, hey, make the text
smaller if we're in a very small div.
And go either flex row,
enlarge your text if we're in a wider one.
Not necessarily the viewport of the entire
app, but just the div that we're in.
The fact that I don't have
to do that in JavaScript, or
try to just have heuristics,
is the greatest thing ever.
So then you can do something like,
Here's an example where I say, add extra
small, make the text size base, right?
You're gonna have the font size changes
based on the container that it's in,
so even if it's flexible in size,
the other things make total sense as well.
And so that's a plugin that you can just
install on this just NPM install, and
I'll show you the Tailwind config
that I'm using for this app, and
you can go take a look at it as well.
There's a few other tasty notes in here
that we'll look at, and then we'll
kind of open it up for just larger
questions, which is you NPM install them,
you can pull them in, you throw
them in this plugins array, right?
And that's it, and then you have those
container queries, and it's great.
You should do it, it's wonderful.
And the typography again,
you put the pros on it, it's great.
The only ways I really extended this
theme is I changed the fonts out, right?
So the sans font is now like some font
that I found on font source that I liked.
That stupid title display font
that I sometimes regret, but
now I've already shown it to you,
and I can't ever change it.
And then one of my
favorite monospace fonts.
The other part is that content, which is
the glob that it will use to figure out
where to look for CSS classes to
figure out what to purge, right?
By default, it will look at HTML.
You don't put your CSS file in there,
because then you won't purge anything,
cuz it'll be in the thing.
But like for instance, I wrote Svelte and
Markdown and stuff along those lines.
So if you're using other files where
you're referencing these classes,
you do need to include them.
But that's I kind of set it and forget it.
But beyond that some of these
plugins are really powerful.
And there's again like most things
you can there's an awesome list for
every given library.
There's awesome Tailwind,
awesome whatever, and it's a like 1000
plugins that I look really cool and
I don't have a use case for.
But that doesn't mean that you don't,
that just means I don't,
worth taking a look at.
I do think that the container
core is one and
the typography one are almost
like worth the cost of entry,
because I think they're really
powerful and solve a lot of problems.